>> Brian Holt: So
let's talk about Tanstack query.
This is the artist formerly
known as React query.
They call it now a Tanstack query because
now it works across several libraries,
not just React.
There's an angular query, there's
view query, there's a couple of them.
But I would say far and above the most
popular one is Tanstack query.
So we're gonna make a past orders page,
and this page is going to pull in
all of the old orders that we can
kind of navigate through them.
What's interesting about this data is it's
highly, highly, highly cacheable, right?
Your old orders aren't really
changing from page load to page load.
You might be getting new ones, right?
But the old ones are gonna keep
staying there, and particularly,
if you click the details, right?
The details of an old order aren't
changing minute to minute, so
very highly cacheable.
That's kinda the nice thing
about Tanstack query,
is that it makes caching API
requests just so simple.
Imagine right now with everything
that's shown with use effect,
how would you cache a response?
You could, right?
I imagine most of you would make some sort
of object and that object would live from
you may be another external module and
you would set a key And
then you say if I'm requesting this,
then don't request it pull it from cache.
But no one wants to write that logic,
right?
Then you have to write the expiry logic.
You have to write like hydration
logic if you wanna preload it.
There's a bunch of stuff like that and
you don't have to because ten stack
query kind of does it for you.
It's almost to the point that I almost.
To never have to use effect anymore.
I just use Tanstack query for almost all
the things I was using use effect for.
So, with React,
whenever I start a brand new project,
it's NPM install, React, React-DARM and
Tanstack query,
almost all the time, right?
Everything else,
I don't always need routing,
I don't always need the other tools, but I
almost always end up using tenstack query,
just because it's better and
easier to use.
And use effect, it's just as you can see,
can have some pretty strange bugs.
You just kind of sidestep
that by using tenstack query.
So I'm a fan, as you can tell.
So Let us go make our past orders page.
It's gonna be fun, if you have
a warped sense of fun, like I do.
All right, I'm gonna run my server again.
NPM run dev, now inside of routes,
I'm gonna make a new file.
We're gonna call this past.lazy.jsx.
And it's gonna create this really nice
little stub for us thank you Tanstack.
>> Brian Holt: And that all looks good.
>> Brian Holt: So before we get
too far here, let's go ahead and
install all of our things that we need.
So I'm just gonna grab this
directly out of the docs.
We're gonna be using
Tanstack five 5.59.13 today.
>> Brian Holt: Again, this library doesn't
really change too too much between
versions.
There's some experimental features that
I'm sure that they'll end up adding later,
but we're not using any of
the experimental Features today.
Actually, that's not true,
towards the end we will,
it'll be fun just in
another terminal here.
I'm gonna run MPM install
at Tantack/React-query.
Here we're gonna install MPM
install TanStack React query.
Add 5.59.13, so ahead and
run Install there.
Then we're gonna grab
one out of here as well.
This is just a bunch of them.
It has some really nice dev tools and
it has some nice linting rules
that we're gonna bring in as well.
So npm, install dash D,
cuz these are dev dependencies.
Tantack react query dev tools,
ojhave the warick.
Is like the router dev tools.
I'll say that I use the query ones
more than I use the router ones, so
these ones are actually
more useful in my opinion.
And then we're gonna install
the plugin as well for
it for ESLint specifically.
And again 5.59 13 and
5.59.7 are the versions I'm using.
>> Brian Holt: Awesome,
let's go modify our ESLint config here,
put that there and then.
So we're going to import at the top,
import, plug in.
The query from @ tan
stack/eslint-plugin-query.
>> Brian Holt: And
under the JSX runtime one here we're
just gonna say ...pluginquery.config,
>> Brian Holt: Flat/recommended.
>> Brian Holt: I think I've complained
about this style of config seven times in
this workshop, but
hear me out one more time.
This is just nonsensical-looking.
Some of them are spread,
some of them are not.
Frankly, I spent a lot of time getting
it right before this course, right?
Anyway, that was my problem,
but not yours.
But your future problem.
So, maybe we can commiserate.
All right, so that should work.
I mean, it's always good to just give her
an all NPM run link just to make sure that
say like, something broke that's cool.
>> Brian Holt: Flat,
recommended all right, so
let's make sure that I
got this right here.
PluginQuery.configs with an s.
>> Brian Holt: Right there.
So I had config, it's configs,
let's try that again.
There we go, okay, good.
>> Brian Holt: Get my dev server
running again, all righty.
>> Brian Holt: So let's go ahead and
add our dev tools, might be fun,
could be cute.
So we're going to root.jsx.
And here at the top, we're going to,
>> Brian Holt: I don`t know,
wherever you want to, under here, import,
>> Brian Holt: ReactQueryDevtools
like that, for.
From at Tanstack, react query dev tools,
>> Brian Holt: okay,
and then I just put it like here.
It doesn't really matter, but
we'll just put it like right there.
React query dev tools, like that.
>> Brian Holt: Some of these dev
tools things are just popping up now.
Cuz I think there's a Vercel one and
a Next.js one,
and I think React Toolkit might have one.
So you can have like seven
sets of DevTools in your app.
It's going to end up being like those,
like old school,
like like web 2.0 browsers that have
like 17 ads that all pop up, but
it's going to be just DevTools everywhere.
Can't decide if that's like utopian or
dystopian, and I think the answer is both.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now we have dev tools in there.
I think if you just look at your app now,
yeah, so
it's mad that we still haven't put
the actual React query library in yet.
It's like, I'm looking for something
to hook onto, and I can't find it yet.
So that's expected.
So app.jsx, we're going to
have to import query client and
query client provider from that
Tanstacked React query here.
>> Brian Holt: So those are the two
things I'm importing here.
We have the create router here and
then we have to create
underneath that a const
query client equals new query client.
There's some configurations
you can pass this
I don't remember what they
are necessarily off the top of my head.
>> Brian Holt: You can pre fill the cache,
which is kind of cool, it's covering it.
So let's say you have a bunch of requests
that you know that the user is likely
to make, if in our example.
Let's say we could pre fill this with
like the last ten orders, just knowing
that that's the most likely orders that
people are going to look at, right?
You could pass that in in query cache,
right?
And so you can precache these things,
which is kinda cool.
The reason why I really like that is
now all of our API requests get to look
normal.
We don't have to say, all right, check the
cache first and then make the API request.
It's like, nope, just make the call
tanstack queries just be like,
if I have it, I'll give it to you already,
and if I don't have it, I'll go get it.
Mutation cache is much the same.
Mutations are like post requests, right,
where you're like posting
something to the API.
You can cache that it's a bit more weird.
And then the default options here,
queries, mutations, hydrate,
dehydrate, there's a bunch of options
around doing stuff like that.
Those were just the TypeScript types.
If that was confusing to anyone,
you can just command, click on things,
and it'll take you to
the TypeScript types.
I do that all the time, just to,
it's like, what does this do?
Why does it do it this way?
Sometimes the the types can help.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so we have that.
Now, we have to give it to the app
with the QueryClientProvider.
Client = queryClient and
we'll just do it like that.
>> Brian Holt: There we go, so now if you
look at our page, it's loading again, and
you can see we have this nice little
palm tree down in the corner.
It's very tropical, and you click on that,
we don't we're not using it yet.
So our dev tools are vacant, but
stuff will start showing up here,
which is kind of cool you.